--- PNEUMOTHORAX GUIDELINE ---
1. J Thorac Dis. 2024 Jul 30;16(7):4756-4763. doi: 10.21037/jtd-24-415. Epub 2024
 Jul 15.

Management of spontaneous pneumothorax: a mini-review on its latest evidence.

Cheng HS(1), Wong C(1), Chiu PH(1), Tong CW(1), Miu PF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Pamela Youde Nethersole Eastern Hospital, Hong Kong, 
China.

Spontaneous pneumothorax usually presents as a medical emergency and requires 
prompt attention and treatment. In patients with underlying lung diseases, it is 
often associated with prolonged hospitalization, persistent air leak and also a 
high rate of recurrence. It brings considerable clinical burden to patients and 
therefore advancement of spontaneous pneumothorax management is eagerly 
anticipated. In recent years, conservative approach with avoidance of invasive 
treatment has risen to be a main consideration for primary spontaneous 
pneumothorax (PSP) patients who are clinically stable with minimal symptoms. The 
body of evidence in secondary spontaneous pneumothorax (SSP) group is less 
robust compared with that in PSP group. Non-surgical treatment in SSP is 
becoming more common due to concerns about morbidity and mortality after 
surgical pleurodesis as patients are usually older with more underlying medical 
diseases. Until last year, there have been no updates on the international 
recommendation of pneumothorax management since the British Thoracic Society 
(BTS) guideline published in 2010. The latest 2023 BTS guideline on pleural 
diseases provides us a good opportunity to review the latest development and 
literature of the care for patients with spontaneous pneumothorax. This article 
will explore the goals of pneumothorax treatment including air evacuation, 
cessation of persistent air leak and prevention of recurrence.

2024 Journal of Thoracic Disease. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/jtd-24-415
PMCID: PMC11320271
PMID: 39144356

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://jtd.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/jtd-24-415/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.
--- HEART FAILURE ---
1. Ann Afr Med. 2026 Jun 30. doi: 10.4103/aam.aam_85_26. Online ahead of print.

Peripartum Cardiomyopathy in Obstetric Practice: A Case Series.

[Article in English, French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Sharmeen S(1), Priya GP, Jeyamani B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Vinayaka Mission's Kirupananda 
Variyar Medical College and Hospitals, Vinayaka Mission's Research Foundation 
(DU), Salem, Tamil Nadu, India.

BACKGROUND: Peripartum cardiomyopathy is a rare but potentially life-threatening 
form of pregnancy-associated heart failure that occurs in the last month of 
pregnancy or within the first few months following delivery in women without 
preexisting cardiac disease. The clinical presentation often overlaps with 
normal physiological changes of pregnancy and the puerperium, leading to delayed 
diagnosis and increased maternal morbidity. Imaging modalities such as chest 
X-ray and echocardiography play a crucial role in early recognition and 
confirmation of the disease.
OBJECTIVES: To describe the clinical presentation, diagnostic imaging findings, 
management strategies, and maternal outcomes of peripartum cardiomyopathy 
encountered in obstetric practice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This case series includes five women diagnosed with 
peripartum cardiomyopathy and managed at a tertiary care teaching hospital over 
a 2-year study period from January 2024 to December 2025. Detailed clinical 
data, including obstetric profile, timing of presentation, symptoms of heart 
failure, chest X-ray findings, two-dimensional echocardiographic parameters, 
treatment instituted, and maternal outcomes, were collected and analyzed. 
Diagnosis was established based on clinical features of heart failure supported 
by imaging evidence of left ventricular systolic dysfunction in the absence of 
prior structural heart disease.
RESULTS: All five women presented in the late third trimester or early 
postpartum period with symptoms such as breathlessness, orthopnea, fatigue, and 
pedal edema. Chest X-ray findings included cardiomegaly with associated pleural 
effusion, predominantly left-sided, in selected cases. Two-dimensional 
echocardiography demonstrated global left ventricular hypokinesia with reduced 
ejection fraction in all patients. Multidisciplinary management involving 
obstetricians, cardiologists, and critical care specialists was instituted. With 
timely diagnosis and appropriate medical management, all patients showed 
clinical improvement and survived the acute episode.
CONCLUSION: Peripartum cardiomyopathy remains an important cause of maternal 
morbidity in obstetric practice. A high index of suspicion, early use of 
diagnostic imaging such as chest X-ray and echocardiography, and coordinated 
multidisciplinary management are essential for improving maternal outcomes and 
reducing the risk of long-term cardiac dysfunction.

Publisher: Résumé Contexte:La cardiomyopathie du péripartum est une forme rare 
mais potentiellement mortelle d’insuffisance cardiaque associée à la grossesse, 
survenant au cours du dernier mois de grossesse ou dans les premiers mois 
suivant l’accouchement chez des femmes sans antécédents de maladie cardiaque. La 
présentation clinique chevauche souvent les modifications physiologiques 
normales de la grossesse et du post-partum, entraînant un retard diagnostique et 
une augmentation de la morbidité maternelle. Les techniques d’imagerie telles 
que la radiographie thoracique et l’échocardiographie jouent un rôle essentiel 
dans la détection précoce et la confirmation du diagnostic.Objectifs:Décrire la 
présentation clinique, les résultats de l’imagerie diagnostique, les stratégies 
thérapeutiques et l’évolution maternelle des cas de cardiomyopathie du 
péripartum rencontrés en pratique obstétricale.Matériels et Méthodes:Cette série 
de cas comprend cinq femmes diagnostiquées avec une cardiomyopathie du 
péripartum et prises en charge dans un hôpital universitaire tertiaire sur une 
période d’étude de deux ans allant de janvier 2024 à décembre 2025. Des données 
cliniques détaillées, incluant le profil obstétrical, le moment de la 
présentation, les symptômes d’insuffisance cardiaque, les résultats de la 
radiographie thoracique, les paramètres échocardiographiques bidimensionnels, 
les traitements instaurés et les issues maternelles, ont été recueillies et 
analysées. Le diagnostic a été établi sur la base des manifestations cliniques 
d’insuffisance cardiaque, soutenues par des preuves d’imagerie montrant une 
dysfonction systolique ventriculaire gauche en l’absence de cardiopathie 
structurelle préexistante.Résultats:Les cinq patientes se sont présentées au 
cours du troisième trimestre tardif ou dans le post-partum précoce avec des 
symptômes tels qu’une dyspnée, une orthopnée, une fatigue et des œdèmes des 
membres inférieurs. Les radiographies thoraciques ont montré une cardiomégalie 
associée, dans certains cas, à un épanchement pleural prédominant du côté 
gauche. L’échocardiographie bidimensionnelle a révélé une hypokinésie globale du 
ventricule gauche avec une fraction d’éjection réduite chez toutes les 
patientes. Une prise en charge multidisciplinaire impliquant obstétriciens, 
cardiologues et spécialistes des soins intensifs a été mise en œuvre. Grâce à un 
diagnostic rapide et à un traitement médical approprié, toutes les patientes ont 
présenté une amélioration clinique et ont survécu à l’épisode aigu.Conclusion:La 
cardiomyopathie du péripartum demeure une cause importante de morbidité 
maternelle en pratique obstétricale. Un haut degré de suspicion clinique, le 
recours précoce à l’imagerie diagnostique telle que la radiographie thoracique 
et l’échocardiographie, ainsi qu’une prise en charge multidisciplinaire 
coordonnée sont essentiels pour améliorer le pronostic maternel et réduire le 
risque de dysfonction cardiaque à long terme.

Copyright © 2026 Annals of African Medicine.

DOI: 10.4103/aam.aam_85_26
PMID: 42377926
--- COPD EMPHYSEMA ---
1. BMC Pulm Med. 2026 Aug 31;26(1):387. doi: 10.1186/s12890-026-04662-9.

Isolated, reduced diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide in the population - 
relations to symptoms, smoking and comorbidities.

Hamrefors V(1), Westerbergh J(2), Behndig A(3), Blomberg A(3), Brandberg 
J(4)(5), Carlén A(6)(7), Egesten A(8), Ekbom E(9), Emilsson ÖI(9)(10), Eriksson 
MJ(11)(12), Frølich A(3), Grote L(13), Janson C(9), Karimi R(14)(15), Moberg 
A(6), Persson HL(6)(16), Pesonen I(14)(15), Sköld M(14)(15), Sörensen K(17), 
Tanash H(18), Torén K(19)(20), Vanfleteren L(21), Wollmer P(22), Malinovschi 
A(23).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Clinical Research Centre, Lund University 
and Department of Internal Medicine, Skåne University Hospital, Box 50332, 
Malmö, 202 13, Sweden. viktor.hamrefors@med.lu.se.
(2)Uppsala Clinical Research Center, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå University, Umeå, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Radiology, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska Academy 
at University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Department of Radiology, Region Västra Götaland, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Department of Health, Medicine and Caring Sciences, Linköping University, 
Linköping, Sweden.
(7)Department of Clinical Physiology in Linköping, Region Östergötland, 
Linköping, Sweden.
(8)Respiratory Medicine, Allergology, and Palliative Medicine, Department of 
Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University and Skåne University Hospital, Lund, 
Sweden.
(9)Department of Medical Sciences, Respiratory, Allergy and Sleep Research, 
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, Reykjavik and Department of Respiratory Medicine, 
University of Iceland, Landspitali University Hospital, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(11)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institute, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(12)Department of Clinical Physiology, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(13)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Nutrition, Institute of 
Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(14)Division of Immunology and Respiratory Medicine, Department of Medicine 
Solna and Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(15)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Allergy, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(16)Department of Respiratory Medicine in Linköping, Linköping University, 
Linköping, Sweden.
(17)Department of Diagnostics and Intervention, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
(18)Department of Medicine, Skåne University Hospital, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(19)Section of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, School of Public Health 
and Community Medicine, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University 
of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(20)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Sahlgrenska 
University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(21)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Nutrition, COPD Center, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(22)Department of Translational Medicine, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(23)Department of Medical Sciences, Clinical Physiology, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) is a measure of gas 
exchange in the lungs. Reduced DLCO with normal spirometry is a common finding 
that is incompletely understood.
AIM: To assess determinants of isolated, reduced DLCO in an unselected 
population.
METHODS: The Swedish CArdioPulmonary bioImage Study (SCAPIS) is a multicentre 
population-based study of adults aged 50-64 years. The 5th percentile of DLCO in 
healthy never smokers was used as the lower limit of normal (LLN). Using 
multivariable analysis, we studied factors associated with DLCO < LLN in 24 261 
subjects with normal spirometry, defined as FEV1, FVC and FEV1/FVC > LLN. 
Emphysema and interstitial lung abnormalities (ILA) were assessed through 
computed tomography, physical activity through accelerometry and other factors 
through questionnaires.
RESULTS: Isolated DLCO < LLN (n = 1 472) was independently associated with 
emphysema (odds ratio and 95% confidence interval: 2.6 (2.2, 3.2)), lung disease 
other than asthma or COPD (1.8 (1.2, 2.8)), exertional chest pain (1.6 (1.3, 
2.1)), smoking (per-10-pack-years) (1.6 (1.4, 1.9)), ILA (1.4 (1.2, 1.7)), 
breathing problems (1.4 (1.1, 1.8)), male sex (1.3 (1.1, 1.6)) and coughing (1.2 
(1.1, 1.5)). DLCO < LLN was less likely if subjects were older, had asthma or 
had higher BMI, haemoglobin, FVC or physical activity.
CONCLUSION: Isolated, reduced DLCO in a large middle-aged population cohort is 
associated with numerous previously known factors, including emphysema, ILA, 
smoking and self-reported lung disease. However, several symptoms, including 
exertional chest pain, breathing problems and coughing, are also independently 
associated with isolated reduced DLCO.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-026-04662-9
PMCID: PMC13531966
PMID: 42675482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The ethical review board in Umeå approved SCAPIS as a multicentre 
study (Dnr 2010–228-31 M), with subsequent approval of analysis of pulmonary 
function (Dnr 2017/14–31). The study adhered to the Declaration of Helsinki and 
all participants provided written informed consent. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: JB reports leadership position within the 
Swedish Society of Radiology, and stocks in AstraZeneca and Novo Nordisk. AE 
reports consulting fees from Arcede Pharma and BioCyst. ÖIE reports honoraria 
for lectures from MSD, AstraZeneca and Boehringer Ingelheim, payment for expert 
testimony from MSD, and participation on advisory boards for MSD, AstraZeneca 
and Boehringer Ingelheim, not related to this manuscript. LG reports shared 
ownership of a patent on pharmacological therapy in sleep apnea licensed to 
Desitin GMBH, payment for participation in speakers bureau from Lundbeck, Resmed 
and AstraZeneca, payment for participation on advisory board for Onera, as well 
as being Chair of the Swedish Sleep Apnea Registry (SESAR), the national working 
group on sleep apnea in adults and the ERS-CRC for the European Sleep Apnea 
Database (ESADA). VH reports support for this manuscript from the Swedish Heart 
Lung Foundation, Skåne University Hospital Funds, and the governmental funding 
of clinical research within the Swedish National Health Service. HLP reports 
consulting fees from the Swedish Medical Products Agency, personal payments for 
lectures and presentations from AstraZeneca AB, and personal payments from 
GlaxoSmithKline AB for participation on advisory boards. IP reports consulting 
fees and payment for lectures from Boehringer Ingelheim. LEGW reports grants 
from the Swedish Heart Lung Foundation, the Kamprad foundation, Vinnova, 
AstraZeneca and the Swedish Government and county council (ALF grant 
ALFGBG-824371), payment for lectures from AstraZeneca, Chiesi, Grifols, GSK, 
Pulmonx, and Novartis, support for meeting attendance from Menarin Foundation, 
and participation on advisory board for AstraZeneca. The rest of the authors 
declare no conflicts of interest relating to this manuscript.
--- HIV TB ---
1. BMJ Paediatr Open. 2026 Sep 30;10(1):e004610. doi: 10.1136/bmjpo-2026-004610.

Effectiveness and safety of the available preventive tuberculosis treatment 
regimens for children and adolescents: systematic review and network 
meta-analysis.

Sabella-Jiménez V(1)(2), Benjumea-Bedoya D(3)(4), Hoyos-Mendez Y(5), 
Estupiñán-Bohorquez AF(1)(2), Acosta-Reyes J(1), Florez ID(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Universidad del Norte, Barranquilla, Colombia.
(2)Grupo de Investigación en Salud Familiar y Comunitaria, Facultad Ciencias de 
la Salud, Corporación Universitaria Remington, Medellin, Colombia.
(3)Grupo de Investigación en Salud Familiar y Comunitaria, Facultad Ciencias de 
la Salud, Corporación Universitaria Remington, Medellin, Colombia 
dione.benjumea@uniremington.edu.co.
(4)Grupo de Investigación en Epidemiología, Facultad Nacional de Salud Pública, 
Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Universidad CES Facultad de Medicina, Medellin, 
Colombia.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Universidad de Antioquia, Medellin, Colombia.
(7)Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU), Clinica Las Americas-AUNA, Medellin, 
Antioquia, Colombia.
(8)Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Unity Health 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Although children are at a higher risk of progressing to 
tuberculosis (TB) disease compared with adults, research and publications 
addressing TB management have mostly emphasised adult disease.
METHODS: MEDLINE, Embase, CENTRAL and grey literature were searched from 
inception to 3 May 2021, and updated on 12 December 2024 for the systematic 
review and network meta-analysis (NMA). Randomised controlled trials of children 
and/or adolescents under 18 years with TB infection, contacts of 
drug-susceptible TB, without HIV, evaluating the effectiveness and safety of 
available regimens for the treatment of TB were included. Meta-analysis was 
conducted using a random effects model. Risk of bias was assessed using the 
Cochrane RoB tool 2. Effect estimates (RR and OR) are presented with 95% CIs. 
Certainty of evidence was evaluated using the Grading of Recommendations, 
Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach.
RESULTS: Eleven studies were obtained. All network geometries had open and 
disconnected loops, except adverse reactions for which we conducted a full NMA. 
We found that 4 months of isoniazid and rifampicin (4HR) reduces the number of 
active TB cases at 1 year, 2 years and 5 years of follow-up (RR 0.49 (95% CI 
0.32 to 0.76)) compared with isoniazid for 9 months (9H). The isoniazid + 
rifapentine for 3 months (3HP) regimen (RR 1.09 (95% CI 1.03 to 1.15)), 4HR (RR 
1.07 (95% CI 1.01 to 1.14)) and rifampicin for 4 months (4R) (RR 1.12 (95% CI 
1.05 to 1.20)) regimens have higher treatment adherence compared with 9H. High 
variability was found in the reporting of adverse reactions, which were more 
likely to occur with 3HP compared with 4HR (OR 4.56 (95% CI 1.22 to 16.96)) and 
4R (OR 6.37 (95% CI 2.11 to 19.19)). Adverse reactions occur less frequently 
with 4R (OR 0.34 (95% CI 0.20 to 0.58)) compared with 9H.
CONCLUSIONS: This study synthesised available data on paediatric short and 
long-course regimens. Short course regimens may have higher adherence (3HP, 4HR, 
4R) and may reduce active TB incidence (isoniazid + rifampicin for 3 months 
(3HR) and 4HR) compared with 9H.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42021271512.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjpo-2026-004610
PMCID: PMC13629875
PMID: 42816130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.
