--- PNEUMONIA DIABETES ---
1. CMAJ Open. 2021 Jan 25;9(1):E62-E70. doi: 10.9778/cmajo.20200013. Print 2021 
Jan-Mar.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus and risk of community-acquired pneumonia: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis of observational studies.

Brunetti VC(1), Ayele HT(1), Yu OHY(1), Ernst P(1), Filion KB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health (Brunetti, 
Ayele, Filion), McGill University; Centre for Clinical Epidemiology (Brunetti, 
Ayele, Yu, Ernst, Filion), Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, and 
Divisions of Endocrinology (Yu) and Pulmonary Medicine (Ernst), Jewish General 
Hospital, McGill University; Department of Medicine (Ernst, Filion), McGill 
University, Montréal, Que.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health (Brunetti, 
Ayele, Filion), McGill University; Centre for Clinical Epidemiology (Brunetti, 
Ayele, Yu, Ernst, Filion), Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, and 
Divisions of Endocrinology (Yu) and Pulmonary Medicine (Ernst), Jewish General 
Hospital, McGill University; Department of Medicine (Ernst, Filion), McGill 
University, Montréal, Que. kristian.filion@mcgill.ca.

BACKGROUND: People with type 2 diabetes are at greater risk for infections than 
those without type 2 diabetes. Our objective was to examine the association 
between type 2 diabetes and the risk of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
METHODS: In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we searched MEDLINE, 
Embase, CINAHL, ProQuest theses and dissertations, Global Health, the Global 
Index Medicus of the World Health Organization, and Google Scholar. We included 
observational studies published in English or French between Jan. 1, 1946 (start 
of MEDLINE) and July 18, 2020. Two independent reviewers extracted data and 
assessed quality using the ROBINS-I tool. DerSimonian-Laird random-effects 
models were used to pool estimates of the association between type 2 diabetes 
and CAP.
RESULTS: Our systematic review included 15 articles, reporting on 13 cohort 
studies and 4 case-control studies (14 538 968 patients). All studies reported 
an increased risk of pneumonia among patients with type 2 diabetes, and all were 
at serious risk of bias. When estimates were pooled across studies, the pooled 
relative risk was 1.64 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.55-1.73); although there 
was a substantial amount of relative heterogeneity (I 2 94.2), the amount of 
absolute heterogeneity was more modest (T2 0.008). The relative risk was 1.70 
(95% CI 1.63-1.77, I 2 85.2%, T2 0.002) among cohort studies (n = 13), and the 
odds ratio was 1.54 (95% CI 1.14-2.09, I 2 92.7%, T2 0.07) among case-control 
studies (n = 4).
INTERPRETATION: Type 2 diabetes may be associated with an increased risk of CAP; 
however, the available evidence is from studies at serious risk of bias, and 
additional, high-quality studies are needed to confirm these findings.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION: CRD42018116409.

© 2021 Joule Inc. or its licensors.

DOI: 10.9778/cmajo.20200013
PMCID: PMC7843079
PMID: 33495386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.
--- PRIOR FRACTURE ---
1. Osteoporos Int. 2023 Dec;34(12):2027-2045. doi: 10.1007/s00198-023-06870-z.
Epub  2023 Aug 11.

Previous fracture and subsequent fracture risk: a meta-analysis to update FRAX.

Kanis JA(1)(2), Johansson H(3)(4), McCloskey EV(5)(6), Liu E(3), Åkesson 
KE(7)(8), Anderson FA(9), Azagra R(10)(11)(12), Bager CL(13), Beaudart 
C(14)(15), Bischoff-Ferrari HA(16)(17), Biver E(18), Bruyère O(14), Cauley 
JA(19), Center JR(20)(21)(22), Chapurlat R(23), Christiansen C(13), Cooper 
C(24)(25)(26), Crandall CJ(27), Cummings SR(28), da Silva JAP(29)(30), 
Dawson-Hughes B(31), Diez-Perez A(32), Dufour AB(33)(34), Eisman JA(20)(21)(22), 
Elders PJM(35), Ferrari S(18), Fujita Y(36), Fujiwara S(37), Glüer CC(38), 
Goldshtein I(39)(40), Goltzman D(41), Gudnason V(42)(43), Hall J(44), Hans 
D(45), Hoff M(46)(47), Hollick RJ(48), Huisman M(49)(50), Iki M(51), Ish-Shalom 
S(52), Jones G(53), Karlsson MK(7)(8), Khosla S(54), Kiel DP(33)(34), Koh 
WP(55)(56), Koromani F(57)(58), Kotowicz MA(59)(60)(61), Kröger H(62)(63), Kwok 
T(64)(65), Lamy O(66)(67), Langhammer A(68), Larijani B(69), Lippuner K(70), 
Mellström D(71)(72), Merlijn T(73), Nordström A(74)(75)(76), Nordström P(77), 
O'Neill TW(78)(79), Obermayer-Pietsch B(80)(81), Ohlsson C(82)(83), Orwoll 
ES(84), Pasco JA(59)(60)(61)(85), Rivadeneira F(57), Schott AM(86), Shiroma 
EJ(87), Siggeirsdottir K(42)(88), Simonsick EM(89), Sornay-Rendu E(90), Sund 
R(63), Swart KMA(35)(91), Szulc P(90), Tamaki J(92), Torgerson DJ(93), van 
Schoor NM(49), van Staa TP(94), Vila J(95), Wareham NJ(96), Wright NC(97), 
Yoshimura N(98), Zillikens MC(57), Zwart M(12)(99)(100)(101), Vandenput 
L(3)(82), Harvey NC(24)(25), Lorentzon M(3)(4), Leslie WD(102).

Author information:
(1)Mary McKillop Institute for Health Research, Australian Catholic University, 
Melbourne, Australia. w.j.Pontefract@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Metabolic Bone Diseases, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. 
w.j.Pontefract@sheffield.ac.uk.
(3)Mary McKillop Institute for Health Research, Australian Catholic University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Sahlgrenska Osteoporosis Centre, Institute of Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(5)Centre for Metabolic Bone Diseases, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(6)MRC Versus Arthritis Centre for Integrated research in Musculoskeletal 
Ageing, Mellanby Centre for Musculoskeletal Research, University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.
(7)Clinical and Molecular Osteoporosis Research Unit, Department of Clinical 
Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(8)Department of Orthopedics, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(9)GLOW Coordinating Center, Center for Outcomes Research, University of 
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, USA.
(10)Department of Medicine, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(11)Health Centre Badia del Valles, Catalan Institute of Health, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(12)PRECIOSA-Fundación para la investigación, Barberà del Vallés, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(13)Nordic Bioscience A/S, Herlev, Denmark.
(14)WHO Collaborating Centre for Public Health Aspects of Musculoskeletal Health 
and Aging, Division of Public Health, Epidemiology and Health Economics, 
University of Liège, Liège, Belgium.
(15)Department of Health Services Research, University of Maastricht, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(16)Department of Aging Medicine and Aging Research, University Hospital, 
Zurich, and University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(17)Centre on Aging and Mobility, University of Zurich and City Hospital, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(18)Division of Bone Diseases, Department of Medicine, Geneva University 
Hospitals and Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(19)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, USA.
(20)Skeletal Diseases Program, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(21)St Vincent's Clinical School, School of Medicine and Health, University of 
New South Wales Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(22)School of Medicine Sydney, University of Notre Dame Australia, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(23)INSERM UMR 1033, Université Claude Bernard-Lyon1, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, 
Lyon, France.
(24)MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Centre, University of Southampton, Southampton, 
UK.
(25)NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre, University of Southampton and 
University Hospitals Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK.
(26)NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Unit, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(27)Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, David 
Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(28)San Francisco Coordinating Center, California Pacific Medical Center 
Research Institute, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(29)Coimbra Institute for Clinical and Biomedical Research, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(30)Rheumatology Department, Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(31)Bone Metabolism Laboratory, Jean Mayer US Department of Agriculture Human 
Nutrition Research Center on Aging, Tufts University, Boston, MA, USA.
(32)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital del Mar and CIBERFES, Autonomous 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(33)Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew Senior Life, Boston, MA, USA.
(34)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(35)Petra JM Elders Department of General Practice, Amsterdam UMC, location AMC, 
Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(36)Center for Medical Education and Clinical Training, Kindai University 
Faculty of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(37)Department of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's University, Hiroshima, Japan.
(38)Section Biomedical Imaging, Molecular Imaging North Competence Center, 
Department of Radiology and Neuroradiology, University Medical Center 
Schleswig-Holstein Kiel, Kiel University, Kiel, Germany.
(39)Maccabitech Institute of Research and Innovation, Maccabi Healthcare 
Services, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(40)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(41)Department of Medicine, McGill University and McGill University Health 
Centre, Montreal, Canada.
(42)Icelandic Heart Association, Kopavogur, Iceland.
(43)University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(44)MRC Centre for Reproductive Health, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(45)Interdisciplinary Centre of Bone Diseases, Bone and Joint Department, 
Lausanne University Hospital (CHUV) & University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(46)Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
(47)Department of Rheumatology, St Olavs Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(48)Aberdeen Centre for Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Health, Epidemiology 
Group, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(49)Department of Epidemiology and Data Science, Amsterdam Public Health 
Research Institute, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(50)Department of Sociology, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(51)Department of Public Health, Kindai University Faculty of Medicine, Osaka, 
Japan.
(52)Endocrine Clinic, Elisha Hospital, Haifa, Israel.
(53)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart, 
Australia.
(54)Robert and Arlene Kogod Center on Aging and Division of Endocrinology, Mayo 
Clinic College of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(55)Healthy Longevity Translational Research Programme, Yong Loo Lin School of 
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(56)Singapore Institute for Clinical Sciences, Agency for Science Technology and 
Research (A*STAR), Singapore, Singapore.
(57)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(58)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(59)IMPACT (Institute for Mental and Physical Health and Clinical Translation), 
Deakin University, Geelong, Victoria, Australia.
(60)Barwon Health, Geelong, Victoria, Australia.
(61)Department of Medicine -Western Health, The University of Melbourne, St 
Albans, Victoria, Australia.
(62)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Kuopio University Hospital, 
Kuopio, Finland.
(63)Kuopio Musculoskeletal Research Unit, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, 
Finland.
(64)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(65)Jockey Club Centre for Osteoporosis Care and Control, Faculty of Medicine, 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(66)Centre of Bone Diseases, Lausanne University Hospital, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(67)Service of Internal Medicine, Lausanne University Hospital, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(68)HUNT Research Centre, Department of Public Health and Nursing, Faculty of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway.
(69)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(70)Department of Osteoporosis, Bern University Hospital, University of Bern, 
Bern, Switzerland.
(71)Geriatric Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Nutrition, 
Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(72)Geriatric Medicine, Sahlgrenska University Hospital Mölndal, Mölndal, 
Sweden.
(73)Department of General Practice, Amsterdam UMC, location AMC, Amsterdam 
Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(74)School of Sport Sciences, UiT The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, 
Norway.
(75)Department of Health Sciences, Swedish Winter Sports Research Centre, Mid 
Sweden University, Östersund, Sweden.
(76)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(77)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(78)National Institute for Health Research Manchester Biomedical Research 
Centre, Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health 
Science Centre, Manchester, UK.
(79)Centre for Epidemiology Versus Arthritis, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK.
(80)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Diabetology, 
Medical University Graz, Graz, Austria.
(81)Center for Biomarker Research in Medicine, Graz, Austria.
(82)Sahlgrenska Osteoporosis Centre, Department of Internal Medicine and 
Clinical Nutrition, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(83)Department of Drug Treatment, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Region Västra 
Götaland, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(84)Department of Medicine, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR, 
USA.
(85)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(86)Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, U INSERM 1290 RESHAPE, Lyon, France.
(87)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, National Institute on 
Aging, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(88)Janus Rehabilitation, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(89)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging Intramural 
Research Program, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(90)INSERM UMR 1033, University of Lyon, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France.
(91)PHARMO Institute for Drug Outcomes Research, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(92)Department of Hygiene and Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Educational 
Foundation of Osaka Medical and Pharmaceutical University, Osaka, Japan.
(93)York Trials Unit, Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, 
UK.
(94)Centre for Health Informatics, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, 
School of Health Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(95)Statistics Support Unit, Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute, CIBER 
Epidemiology and Public Health (CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain.
(96)MRC Epidemiology Unit, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(97)Department of Epidemiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.
(98)Department of Preventive Medicine for Locomotive Organ Disorders, The 
University of Tokyo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(99)Health Center Can Gibert del Plà, Catalan Institute of Health, Girona, 
Spain.
(100)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Girona, Girona, Spain.
(101)GROIMAP/GROICAP (research groups), Unitat de Suport a la Recerca Girona, 
Institut Universitari d'Investigació en Atenció Primària Jordi Gol, Girona, 
Spain.
(102)Department of Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

A large international meta-analysis using primary data from 64 cohorts has 
quantified the increased risk of fracture associated with a previous history of 
fracture for future use in FRAX.
INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to quantify the fracture risk associated 
with a prior fracture on an international basis and to explore the relationship 
of this risk with age, sex, time since baseline and bone mineral density (BMD).
METHODS: We studied 665,971 men and 1,438,535 women from 64 cohorts in 32 
countries followed for a total of 19.5 million person-years. The effect of a 
prior history of fracture on the risk of any clinical fracture, any osteoporotic 
fracture, major osteoporotic fracture, and hip fracture alone was examined using 
an extended Poisson model in each cohort. Covariates examined were age, sex, 
BMD, and duration of follow-up. The results of the different studies were merged 
by using the weighted β-coefficients.
RESULTS: A previous fracture history, compared with individuals without a prior 
fracture, was associated with a significantly increased risk of any clinical 
fracture (hazard ratio, HR = 1.88; 95% CI = 1.72-2.07). The risk ratio was 
similar for the outcome of osteoporotic fracture (HR = 1.87; 95% CI = 
1.69-2.07), major osteoporotic fracture (HR = 1.83; 95% CI = 1.63-2.06), or for 
hip fracture (HR = 1.82; 95% CI = 1.62-2.06). There was no significant 
difference in risk ratio between men and women. Subsequent fracture risk was 
marginally downward adjusted when account was taken of BMD. Low BMD explained a 
minority of the risk for any clinical fracture (14%), osteoporotic fracture 
(17%), and for hip fracture (33%). The risk ratio for all fracture outcomes 
related to prior fracture decreased significantly with adjustment for age and 
time since baseline examination.
CONCLUSION: A previous history of fracture confers an increased risk of fracture 
of substantial importance beyond that explained by BMD. The effect is similar in 
men and women. Its quantitation on an international basis permits the more 
accurate use of this risk factor in case finding strategies.

© 2023. International Osteoporosis Foundation and Bone Health and Osteoporosis 
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-023-06870-z
PMCID: PMC7615305
PMID: 37566158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest JA Kanis led the team that 
developed FRAX as director of the WHO Collaborating Centre for Metabolic Bone 
Diseases. EV McCloskey, WD Leslie, M Lorentzon, NC Harvey, E Liu, L Vandenput 
and H Johansson are members of the FRAX team. JA Kanis, NC Harvey, and EV 
McCloskey are members of the advisory body to the National Osteoporosis 
Guideline Group. JA Kanis reports no additional competing interests. KE Åkesson 
has no financial interest related to FRAX; chaired the National SALAR Group for 
Person-Centered Care Pathway Osteoporosis. FA Anderson led the team that 
developed GLOW, while director of the Center for Outcomes Research at the 
University of Massachusetts Medical School; he has no financial interest in 
FRAX. R Azagra has received funding for research from Instituto Carlos III of 
Spanish Ministry of Health, IDIAP Jordi Gol of Catalan Government and from 
Scientific Societies SEMFYC and SEIOMM. CL Bager is employed at Nordic 
Bioscience and owns stock in Nordic Bioscience. She declares no competing 
interests in relation to this work. HA Bischoff-Ferrari has no financial 
interest in FRAX. For the DO-HEALTH trial cohort, Prof. Bischoff-Ferrari reports 
independent and investigator-initiated grants from European Commission Framework 
7 Research Program, from the University of Zurich, from NESTEC, from Pfizer 
Consumer Healthcare, from Streuli Pharma, plus non-financial support from DNP. 
For the study cohort extension, she reports independent and 
investigator-initiated grants from Pfizer and from Vifor. Further, Prof. 
Bischoff-Ferrari reports non-financial support from Roche Diagnostics and 
personal fees from Wild, Sandoz, Pfizer, Vifor, Mylan, Roche, Meda Pharma, 
outside the submitted work with regard to speaker fees and travel fees. JR 
Center has received honoraria for speaking at educational meetings and for 
advisory boards from Amgen and honoraria for an advisory board from Bayer. R 
Chapurlat has no financial interest in FRAX. He has received grant funding from 
Amgen, UCB, Chugai, MSD, Mylan and Medac. He has received honoraria from Amgen, 
UCB, Chugai, Galapagos, Biocon, Abbvie, Haoma Medica, Pfizer, Amolyt, MSD, 
Lilly, BMS, Novartis, Arrow, PKMed, Kyowa-Kirin, and Sanofi. C Christiansen owns 
stock in Nordic Bioscience. He declares no competing interests in relation to 
this work. C Cooper reports personal fees from Alliance for Better Bone Health, 
Amgen, Eli Lilly, GSK, Medtronic, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Servier, 
Takeda and UCB. A Diez-Perez reports personal fees from Amgen, Lilly, Theramex 
and grants from Instituto Carlos III and owns shares of Active Life Scientific, 
all outside the submitted work. JA Eisman declares consulting and research 
support from Actavis, Amgen, Aspen, Lilly, Merck Sharp and Dohme, Novartis, 
Sanofi-Aventis, Servier and Theramex. PJM Elders has no financial interest in 
FRAX. PJM Elders reports support for the SOS study by Stichting Achmea 
Gezondheidszorg, Achmea and VGZ zorgverzekeraar. Additional support was given by 
the stichting Artsenlaboratorium en Trombosedienst. Outside the submitted work, 
she did receive independent investigator driven grants by Zonmw, the 
Netherlands, de Hartstichting, the Netherlands, the European foundation for the 
study of Diabetes, Amgen the Netherlands, TEVA, the Netherlands and Takeda, the 
Netherlands. Claus-C. Glüer reports honoraria and research support from AgNovos, 
Amgen, osteolabs and UCB unrelated to this work. NC Harvey has received 
consultancy/lecture fees/honoraria/grant funding from Alliance for Better Bone 
Health, Amgen, MSD, Eli Lilly, Radius Health, Servier, Shire, UCB, Consilient 
Healthcare and Internis Pharma. DP Kiel has no financial interest in FRAX but 
has received support for his work in the Framingham Study over the past 30 years 
by the National Institutes of Health, Astra Zeneca, Merck, Amgen, and Radius 
Health. MA Kotowicz has received funding from the National Health and Medical 
Research Council (NHMRC) Australia, and the Medical Research Future Fund (MRFF) 
Australia. He has served on advisory boards for Amgen Australia, Novartic and 
Eli Lilly – all unrelated to this work and is the Director of the Geelong Bone 
Densitometry Service. M Lorentzon has received lecture fees from Amgen, Lilly, 
Meda, Renapharma and UCB Pharma and consulting fees from Amgen, Radius Health, 
UCB Pharma, Renapharma and Consilient Health, all outside the presented work. EV 
McCloskey has received consultancy/lecture fees/grant funding/honoraria from 
AgNovos, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Consilient Healthcare, Fresenius Kabi, Gilead, GSK, 
Hologic, Internis, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Radius Health, Redx Oncology, 
Roche, Sanofi Aventis, UCB, ViiV, Warner Chilcott and I3 Innovus. C Ohlsson is 
listed as a coinventor on two patent applications regarding probiotics in 
osteoporosis treatment. ES Orwoll reports consulting fees from Amgen, Biocon, 
Radius, and Bayer, and research support from Mereo. JA Pasco has received 
funding from the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) Australia, 
and the Medical Research Future Fund (MRFF) Australia, all unrelated to this 
work. KMA Swart is an employee of the PHARMO Institute for Drug Outcomes 
Research. This independent research institute performs financially supported 
studies for government and related healthcare authorities and several 
pharmaceutical companies. NC Wright sits on the Board of Trustee of the US Bone 
Health and Osteoporosis Foundation, and has received consulting fees from Radius 
and ArgenX MC Zillikens has received honoraria in the past for lectures or 
advice from Alexion, Amgen, Eli Lilly, Kyowa Kirin, Shire and UCB, unrelated to 
the current work. M Zwart has received research funding from national societies 
(SEMFYC and SEIOMM). C Beaudart, E Biver, · Bruyère, JA Cauley, CJ Crandall, SR 
Cummings, JAP da Silva, B Dawson-Huges, AB Dufour, S Ferrari, Y Fujita, S 
Fujiwara, I Goldshtein, D Goltzman, V Gudnason, J Hall, D Hans, M Hoff, RJ 
Hollick, M Huisman, M Iki, S Ish-Shalom, H Johansson, G Jones, MK Karlsson, S 
Khosla, W-P Koh, F Koromani, H Kröger, T Kwok, · Lamy, A Langhammer, B Larijani, 
WD Leslie, K Lippuner, E Liu, D Mellström, T Merlijn, A Nordström, P Nordström, 
TW O’Neill, B Obermayer-Pietsch, F Rivadeneira, A-M Schott, EJ Shiroma, K 
Sigeirsdottir, EM Simonsick, E Sornay-Rendu, R Sund, KMA Swart, P Szulc, J 
Tamaki, DJ Torgerson, L Vandenput, NM van Schoor, TP van Staa, J Vila, NJ 
Wareham, N Yoshimura declare no competing interests in relation to this work.
--- SMOKING NODULE ---
1. Oncotarget. 2017 Apr 25;8(17):29318-29327. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.16426.

Assessment of the cancer risk factors of solitary pulmonary nodules.

Yang L(1), Zhang Q(2), Bai L(2), Li TY(1), He C(1), Ma QL(2), Li LS(1), Huang 
XQ(1), Qian GS(2).

Author information:
(1)Interventional Radiology Department, the First Hospital of the Third Military 
Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China.
(2)Institute of Respiratory Diseases, the Second Hospital of the Third Military 
Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China.

There are no large samples or exact prediction models for assessing the cancer 
risk factors of solitary pulmonary nodules (SPNs) in the Chinese population. We 
retrospectively analyzed the clinical and imaging data of patients with SPNs who 
underwent computer tomography guided needle biopsy in our hospital from Jan 1st 
of 2011 to March 30th of 2016. These patients were divided into a development 
data set and a validation data set. These groups included 1078 and 344 patients, 
respectively. A prediction model was developed from the development data set and 
was validated with the validation data set using logistic regression. The 
predictors of cancer in our model included female gender, age, pack-years of 
smoking, a previous history of malignancy, nodule size, lobulated and spiculated 
edges, lobulation alone and spiculation alone. The Area Under the Curves, 
sensitivity and specificity of our model in the development and validation data 
sets were significantly higher than those of the Mayo model and VA model (p < 
0.001). We established the largest sampling risk prediction model of SPNs in a 
Chinese cohort. This model is particularly applicable to SPNs > 8 mm in size. 
SPNs in female patients, as well as SPNs featuring a combination of lobulated 
and spiculated edges or lobulated edges alone, should be evaluated carefully due 
to the probability that they are malignant.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.16426
PMCID: PMC5438732
PMID: 28404977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.
